# Immich Docker Install

1. To install immich, the recommended way to install is using a docker compose, we can't install it on a bare metal debian os. So we will install a docker LXC using the proxmox script and install docker compose.Then we will create the docker-compose file for installing immich.

2. To install docker LXC we can used the following Proxmox script from the beloved tteck github:

		

		Docker LXC
		Options to Install Portainer and/or Docker Compose V2
		Docker is an open-source project for automating the deployment of applications as portable, self-sufficient containers.

		🛈 If the LXC is created Privileged, the script will automatically set up USB passthrough.

		To create a new Proxmox VE Docker LXC, run the command below in the Proxmox VE Shell.

		Copy
		bash -c "$(wget -qLO - https://github.com/tteck/Proxmox/raw/main/ct/docker.sh)"
		⚡ Default Settings: 2GB RAM - 4GB Storage - 2vCPU ⚡
		As an alternative option, you can use Alpine Linux and the Docker package to create a Docker LXC container with faster creation time and minimal system resource usage.

		To create a new Proxmox VE Alpine-Docker LXC, run the command below in the Proxmox VE Shell.

		Copy
		bash -c "$(wget -qO - https://github.com/tteck/Proxmox/raw/main/ct/alpine-docker.sh)"
		⚡ Default Settings: 1GB RAM - 2GB Storage - 1vCPU ⚡
		⚠ Run Compose V2 by replacing the hyphen (-) with a space, using docker compose, instead of docker-compose.

		Portainer Interface: IP:9443


3. Once the container is installed, let's mount a mountpoint of SMB share where the images are uploaded.

4. In order to write the files into the SMB share, there's a catch here. The LXC we created using the script is an unpriviliged container which is the safest way to build container but the issue is we can't write anything into the shared drived from Proxmox host.

5. Instead of mounting the SMB share via Proxmox UI, we use fstab to mount the SMB share. Here are the steps to mount

	```
	  vi /etc/fstab
	```
	
	Then add the following line replacing the uid and gid for which you want the access to the proxmox container
	
	```
	  //192.168.X.XX/Path/to/share/ /path/to/mount/       cifs    noperm,iocharset=utf8,rw,credentials=/root/.storage_credentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,file_mode=0660,dir_mode=0770 0 0
	```
     eg: //192.168.1.19/Photos/immichtest/ /mnt/pve/immichtest/       cifs    noperm,iocharset=utf8,rw,credentials=/root/.storage_credentials,uid=1000,gid=1000,file_mode=0660,dir_mode=0770 0 0
	 
	```
      vi /root/.storage_credentials
    ```	
	 In this file add the username and password as below:
	 
	```
	username=username
	password=password
	```
	
	```
	mount -a
	```
   This will mount the SMB share into the Proxmox host, now check the mount directory permissions by doing ls -al and check if the mount has the permissions of assigned uid and gid. If not do a reboot of the host and it takes care of it.
   
3. Shutdown the container and mount the SMB share to the proxmox LXC by following commands:

   ```
    pct set 100 -mp0 /mnt/bindmounts/shared,mp=/shared
   
   ```
    eg: pct set 100 -mp0 /mnt/pve/immichtest/ ,mp=/immichtest/   - 100 is the lxc id
   
4. Start the container and check the if the mount point is assigned with right uid and gid inside the container.

5. Now in the LXC create a folder using following commands

   ```
     mkdir ./immich/
	 cd ./immich/
   ```
   
   create the docker-compose file and also the .env file in the directory as per the immich guide
   
   ```
      https://immich.app/docs/install/docker-compose
   ```


